Project Title: Recipe Finder Application
Project Overview:
Create a Recipe Finder Application that allows users to search for recipes by ingredient or dish name. The application will fetch real-time data from a recipe API and display recipe information such as dish name, ingredients, preparation time, and instructions. Users can filter recipes based on dietary preferences, such as vegan, vegetarian, or gluten-free. The app will be built using HTML for structure, CSS for styling, and JavaScript for DOM manipulation and API integration.

Functional Requirements:
Search Input for Recipes:

A search bar where users can type an ingredient or dish name.
A Search button to initiate the recipe search.
The user should also be able to press Enter to trigger the search.
Display Recipe Results:

Display a list of recipes based on the user’s search input.
For each recipe, show:
Dish Name
Recipe Image
Short Description
Preparation Time
Cooking Time
Dietary Information (e.g., vegan, vegetarian)
Each recipe in the list should be clickable to view detailed instructions.
Recipe Details View:

When a user clicks on a recipe, display detailed information about the recipe, including:
Ingredients list
Step-by-step instructions
Nutritional Information (if available)
Recipe Rating (if available)
A Back to Search Results button should allow users to return to the search results.
Filters for Recipe Search:

Provide filters to narrow down search results based on:
Dietary Preferences (vegan, vegetarian, gluten-free, etc.)
Meal Type (breakfast, lunch, dinner, snack)
Preparation Time (e.g., recipes under 30 minutes)
Update the displayed results dynamically as filters are applied.
Error Handling:

If no recipes are found, display a message (e.g., “No recipes found. Try another search.”).
Handle API errors (e.g., network issues or invalid API responses) with appropriate error messages.
Favorites Feature (Optional):

Allow users to save recipes to a favorites list.
Store favorite recipes using localStorage, so they persist when the page is refreshed.
Technical Requirements:
HTML:

Use semantic HTML for creating the structure of the application.
Include an input field for search queries, a Search button, and sections for displaying recipe results and recipe details.
CSS:

Design a clean and responsive UI using CSS.
Use Flexbox or CSS Grid to display the recipes in a grid layout.
Create a responsive design that looks good on mobile and desktop devices.
Use hover effects and transitions to make the UI interactive.
JavaScript/DOM:

Use JavaScript to capture the user’s search query and fetch recipe data from an API.
Use fetch or XMLHttpRequest to retrieve data.
Dynamically generate recipe cards and recipe details using DOM manipulation.
Implement event listeners to handle search functionality, filters, and displaying recipe details.
Use localStorage to store and retrieve the user's favorite recipes (if implementing the favorites feature).
API Integration:

Use a recipe API, such as Spoonacular or Edamam, to fetch recipes based on the user’s search input.
Fetch recipes that include images, ingredients, and instructions.
Handle API authentication using an API key.
Optional Features:

Implement a rating system where users can rate recipes (store in localStorage).
Add a meal planner feature, allowing users to select recipes and plan meals for the week.
Project Phases:
Phase 1: Basic UI Layout:

Set up the HTML structure for the app, including a search bar and containers for search results and recipe details.
Use CSS to style the layout and ensure it is responsive.
Phase 2: API Integration:

Fetch recipe data from the chosen recipe API.
Display the results based on the user’s search input.
Ensure search results are dynamic and update the DOM with the fetched data.
Phase 3: Recipe Details:

When a user clicks on a recipe, fetch and display detailed information about that recipe.
Add a back button to return to the search results.
Phase 4: Filters and Error Handling:

Add functionality to filter recipes based on dietary preferences and preparation time.
Implement error handling for invalid searches or API issues.
Phase 5: Favorites (Optional):

Implement a favorites feature that stores user-selected recipes using localStorage.
Recipe API Example (Spoonacular API):
To use the Spoonacular API, sign up for an API key. Once you have the key, you can make requests like this:

javascript
Copy code
const apiKey = 'YOUR_SPOONACULAR_API_KEY';
const searchQuery = 'chicken';
const apiUrl = `https://api.spoonacular.com/recipes/complexSearch?query=${searchQuery}&apiKey=${apiKey}`;

fetch(apiUrl)
    .then(response => response.json())
    .then(data => {
        // Handle the fetched recipe data
        console.log(data.results);
    })
    .catch(error => {
        console.error('Error fetching recipes:', error);
    });
Project Structure:
HTML:

Search input for recipe lookup.
Containers for displaying search results and individual recipe details.
CSS:

Layout and responsiveness for the recipe cards and detailed view.
Styling for filters and user interactions (e.g., hover effects on recipe cards).
JavaScript:

Fetch and display recipe data using the API.
Dynamically create and update recipe elements in the DOM.
Handle search queries, filters, and user clicks.
Expected Deliverables:
HTML file with the app structure.
CSS file for styling the layout and making it responsive.
JavaScript file to handle API calls, DOM manipulation, search/filter functionality, and recipe detail display.
README.md explaining how to set up the project and acquire an API key for the recipe data.
Expected Outcome:
By completing this project, you will:

Gain experience with API integration to fetch external data.
Improve your DOM manipulation skills by dynamically creating and displaying recipe elements.
Learn to handle real-time user inputs and filter results based on user preferences.
Build a responsive and visually appealing UI using CSS Flexbox/Grid.
Implement error handling for smooth user experience.
